I think so
far this has been pretty straightforward.
We have figures, we have images,
we have figure captions.
We've added styling to all of this.
Now comes the moment when we need
to put the figure caption on top of
the figure, okay?
So, so far everything should
be pretty straightforward.
Now we're gonna put the figure
caption on top of the figure.
Anybody have any ideas about the approach
that we could take to make this happen?
>> Changing like the Z index.
>> So Z index would be associated
with the position property, right?
So we could do absolute positioning and
absolutely position our figure
caption on top of our image.
That's definitely one way to do it.
The other way that we can do it
is we can do it with CSS Grid,
who knew that you could do this with grid.
It's one of my favorite
tricks in the world.
I love it overlapping grid cells.
So we're gonna do this with grid.
So to our figure style that we
have started up here at the,
do we have to figure style?
We don't have a figure style,
we'll invent a figure style.
I usually like to put that first.
I'm going to say display grid.
So that's gonna make each figure
displaying in the style of grid.
And then I'm going to tell
it grid-template-rows,
I'm gonna have 1fr 100 pixels.
Okay, so what does that mean?
We're gonna work with the figure
as a display of grid,
just like you have seen before
with parents and children.
We have in our HTML,
We have a figure here and
each figure has two children.
In this case, one child is
the link that the images inside
of that link and
one child is the figure caption, okay?
By declaring the style
of grid on the figure,
we now have our image and
our figure caption as children and
then we can manipulate those in space
to make these overlap each other.
And the way that we'll do that,
Is with these two rows.
And we have a row of, quote, 1fr,
and a row of, quote, a 100 pixels.
100 pixels, that's pretty straightforward,
you know what that is.
What is 1fr?
What is that mean?
Is it French?
It is not French.
It is fractions.
Okay, one fraction.
So one of the cool things we can do in
grid is it will automatically do math
for us.
The fr is a unit that can
only be used inside of grid,
wouldn't it be great if we
could use it elsewhere?
But unfortunately, it's a unique to grid.
So I'm saying basically here,
we're gonna have 100 pixels for
the second child, which will be the figure
caption, and everything else will be,
quote, one fraction,
It's sort of just the remaining space.
So that's what that means.
And then we can specify exactly
where we want things to go.
So, figure A, which is our child here
in our HTML here on line
seven that figure A,
we can say we want it
to go to grid-row: 1/3.
And grid-column: 1/2 and
I'm going to tell you what that means.
So if you imagine your figure where
it consists of two rows, right?
And if we start at the very
top of our figure here,
this is line number one, okay?
This is line number two between
our image and the figure caption,
and this is line number three down here
at the bottom after our figure caption.
So when I say grid-row: 1/3,
I'm saying to the image,
I want you to take up all of the rows.
I want you to take up the first row and
the second row.
And I want you to be in the column of 1,
2.
So column of 1 to 2.
There's only one column in
this particular figure.
Makes sense?
Okay, nothing has changed because grid
very helpfully made another row for
our figure caption.
It's actually made of third row,
even though we didn't ask for it.
And then what we can do is say,
in our figure caption,
we're going to say grid-row: 2/3.
In other words,
take up just that second row,
and grid-column: 1/2.
And that we'll put our figure
caption right on top of our image.
Makes sense?
At this point,
we now have our figures in place and
we have our figure
captions overlapping them.
Obviously, we have some over overlap here
between the image and the next figure.
But we're going to address that
here momentarily when we lay
these out in our desktop grid,
where we have all of the figures
next to each other in the layout
that looks like, Like this.
Where we have the big picture
over on the left side and
then we have the two other
pictures over here on the right.
Makes sense?
Okay, so let's just continue
on writing our code here.
And what I'm going to do now is for
these first three figures, and
I'm just going to fold them up so
that the code's a little easier to read.
For these first three figures, I'm going
to lay them out with grid as well.
And so what I'm going to do is,
at the very top here,
I'm gonna add a div with a class of top
grid because this is the top grid.
[LAUGH] And a /div underneath, okay?
And with that div around
the whole thing in place,
then we could add our top
grid styling here, .topgrid.
We're going to also display as grid.
And we're going to have
grid-template-columns: 2fr 1fr.
So in other words, make one column
twice as wide as the other okay,
and there they are trying to cram into
all the space there, you see that?
It's because we had
written half of our code.
I'm gonna give this a gap of 2rem.
So that'll give us a little
bit of space in between, okay?
So you see that, and then the very first
one here, this coffee cup image here.
I need this to stretch down over two rows,
and
then have these two, the bootcamp and
the advanced CSS layouts.
I need this displaying over
here on the right hand side.
So to set that up, we can say,
For the top grid, for the figure,
that's the first one or the first child,
grid-row: span 2.
In other words,
span yourself over two columns.
There they are.
Okay.
Nice?
All right, so it looks like our
h3s are probably a little bit big.
So let's reduce that size as well.
So I'm going to say for my topgrid h3,
let's turn off the margin
on the bottom to 0,
and make our font size, var, how about h5
because it's just a little bit too big.
Now, wow, look at that.
You have cool overlapping
captions with your figures.
How awesome is that?